# flexsim
This project is a Twilio Flex activity simulator.

It can generate a Flex configuration, deploy Flex infrastructure into a Twilio project, simulate a pseudo-random customer workload, and simulate agent behaviors, including the handling of the workload. It thus simulates the activity one might expect to see in a customer environment. The activity can then be used for a few different purposes:
- demos of the Flex realtime dashboards
- generation of data for Flex Insights demos
- testing of TR workflows
- testing of Flex plugins
- feeding semi-realistic events to EventStreams

The system is composed of multiple scripts: configuration generator, infrastructure deployers and simulators. There is also a cleanup script to remove in-process tasks and, optionally, the deployed simulator resources from a Flex project. If you want to use text-to-speech to simulate customer-agent interactions over real phone calls, there is a customer call simulator script, a script for adding TTS timing to the conversation texts, and a script for deploying the speech file to Twilio Assets. These calls get recorded and can be monitored in the Teams View during a live demo or reviewed later in the Conversations dashboard of Flex Insights.

The next section provides a description of each script.

## flexsim lifecycle


## genconfig
The configuration generator script reads a domain description and outputs configuration files. It is used at simulation design time and should be run whenever the domain description has changed. The domain description and/or configuration files can be checked into source control and shared among users. The script does not require a Twilio project to execute and the configuration files contain no Twilio SIDs that tie them to a specific project.

## timeSpeech
The optional capability of generating real phone calls from simulated customers is done by processing conversational text scripts with text-to-speech. You can use the default, localized scripts or configure your own. The scripts are played by the IVR application, `custsim` and `agentsim` using the TwiML `say` and `pause` verbs. Each of these programs create a TwiML response with a sequence of `say` and `pause` commands that alternate between talking and listening to the other party. To synchronize both "speakers", accurate durations must be used with each pause.

The `timeSpeech` script analyzes the configured conversational scripts and the selected Polly Voices to generate the timing information. If real phone calls are to be used, this script must be run whenever the "speech" file changes. It creates a `speechData.json` file in the configuraton directory, which contains the conversational text and associated timing data.

## installAssets
This is another script that is needed if real phone calls are to be used. It creates a Serverless Service, Environment (`prod`) and Asset (`speech`) in a Twilio project. It only needs to be run once. It outputs a Serverless subdomain name, which must be configured in a Serverless environment variable prior to deploying the serverless functions.

## deploy
The infrastructure deployment script reads the configuration files and executes against a Twilio Flex project. It is used at deployment time and only needs to run when the project is out of sync with the configuration files, such as if they have been regenerated by `genconfig` or edited manually.

Deployment consists of building Workers, TaskQueues and a Workflow. It does not touch any resources created outside of the `flexsim` configuration, so you can deploy into an existing Flex project without conflict.

NOTE: Care must be taken when other tasks are being routed in the project to ensure they are not handled by `flexsim` agents. Conversely, tasks generated by `flexsim` could be routed to your other Workers if the routing criteria overlap. This could be what you want, for example, if you login to Flex and want to handle tasks generated by the simulator.

## deploySpeech
The speech deployment script reads the `metadata.json` and `speechData.json` files and executes against a Twilio Flex project. It is used at deployment time and only needs to run when the speech data file has been regenerated by `timeSpeech`.

## flexsim
The workload simulator script reads the configuration files and generates Tasks that are then routed to the simulation agents by the TaskRouter workflow deployed previously. The configuration files control the arrival rate, channels, customer intents and other parameters. Most activity durations, such as talk time, and attribute values are semi-random, meaning they have target values but will vary in a pseudo-random fashion around their target. If you opt for making real phone calls, it passes those requests to the `custsim` script.

## agentsim
The agent simulator script reads the configuration files, performs a login of the `flexsim` agents and makes them Available for work. When TaskRouter assigns them a Task, they "handle" it. The agents will also change their activity state occasionally, in a pseudo-random manner. It can run in any Flex project that has infrastructure in sync with the configuration files. It can run in the background during the presentation of a demo using that project. If you opt for making real phone calls, it responds to the task assignment callback by creating a conference call and then generates text-to-speech TwiML to simulate the agent portion of the call.

## custsim
The (optional) customer simulator script reads the configuration files and places calls to the center phone number when requested by the `flexsim` script. Once the IVR application answers the call, it generates text-to-speech TwiML to simulate the customer portion of the self-service phase of the call. After routing begins, it will abandon the call if it waits too long in queue. Once the `agentsim` script answers the call, it generates TTS TwiML to simulate the customer portion of the agent-assisted phase of the call.

## Configuration
The system has four execution modes: configuration generation, infrastructure deployment, simulation and (as needed) cleanup. The configuration generation mode uses a combination of localized default values and an optional, user-supplied `domain.json` file to generate a set of JSON configuration files. The deployment, simulation and cleanup modules then read the configuration files when executing against a Flex project.

### Defaults
For ease of use, the configuration generator can be run without any input from the user, simply by relying on default domain values. This will support a bare-bones, generic simulation environment. The default values have been chosen to support a typical SE-led customer demo. They are not very realistic but they do make for a lively demo in the Flex realtime dashboards. Thus, the defaults may not be appropriate for other use cases.

The defaults have been localized for US English and are read (by default) from a file at `localization/en-us.json`. The `flexsim` system can be localized for a different locale by creation of a different defaults file, which can then be specified using the `--locale` option to the `genconfig` and `custsim` scripts.

The default values can then be overridden by the user using a combination of a (localized) `domain.json` file and command-line options. The `genconfig` script uses the combination of those values to generate the configuration files.

### domain.json
For saving a custom simulation domain description, the user can provision a file named `domain.json` to supplement and/or override the defaults. It can be placed in a directory of the user's choice. The `genconfig` script can read this file, merge it with the values read from the localized defaults file, and generate the configuration files. This allows the user to control nearly every aspect of the resulting simulation: tasks, channels, agent counts, customer intents, routing criteria, handle times, agent activities, etc.

The domain file can be used to override the value-generation parameters for standard properties and to supply custom dimensions, as described below.

The format of the file is documented below. You can also inspect the `src/helpers/schema.js` file to see a JSON Schema definition for the file and inspect the `domain.json` file in the `domain` folder for an example. These should get the early adopter started. :-)

### speech.json
For saving custom, intent-specific conversation scripts, to be spoken by Polly voices during simulated phone calls, the user can provision a file named `speech.json` to override the defaults, which are located in the `/localization` folder in localized speech files. It can be placed in a directory of the user's choice. The `timeSpeech` script can read this file and use it rather than the localized defaults file. This allows the user to demo very realistic customer calls by monitoring them using the supervisor monitoring controls in the Teams View window and by listening to their recordings in Flex Insights.

The format of the file is demonstrated by the JSON fragment below. You can also inspect the `localization/en-us-speech.json` file to see a complete example file. Note that the `default` property in the JSON object is used when a call's `intent` dimension value does not have its own entry in the file.

```
{
  "default": {
    "selfService": [
      "first IVR line",
      "first customer line",
      "and so on..."
    ],
    "assisted": [
      "first agent line",
      "first customer line",
      "and so on..."
    ]
  },
  "intent 1": {
    "selfService": [
      "first IVR line",
      "first customer line",
      "and so on..."
    ],
    "assisted": [
      "first agent line",
      "first customer line",
      "and so on..."
    ]
  },
  "intent 2": {
    "selfService": [
      "first IVR line",
      "first customer line",
      "and so on..."
    ],
    "assisted": [
      "first agent line",
      "first customer line",
      "and so on..."
    ]
  }
}
```

NOTE: Whenever the speech files or the selected Polly voices (`center.ivrVoice`, `center.agentVoice` or `customer.voice`) are changed, the `timeSpeech` script must be re-run to re-calculate proper timings for the conversations.

### Command-line Options
Each simulator script supports a set of command-line options, which can be used to make dynamic changes to its operation. Most of these relate to Flex credentials, file locations and simulation length. See the `execution.sample` file for sample command lines.
 
### Script Environment Variables
The scripts that use a Twilio project can use the following environment variables to reference that project and Workspace:
- `ACCOUNT_SID`
- `AUTH_TOKEN`
- `WRKSPC_SID` This should reference the Flex Workspace in TaskRouter for the project in which you will be running the simulation.
- `SYNC_SVC_SID` This can be for an existing or new Sync Service. It's used to coordinate between scripts during the simulation phase.
The `genconfig` and simulation scripts accept a variable to set a seed value for the random number generator. Use of a seed value will make simulator execution deterministic (i.e., repeatable and predicable).

- `RANDOM_SEED` This can be any string.

The `agentsim` and `custsim` scripts also accept a variable to specify the HTTP listening port. If you use a tunneling program like `ngrok`, it should reference this port.
- `AGENTSIM_PORT`
- `CUSTSIM_PORT`

The `agentsim` and `custsim` scripts also accept a variable to specify the Serverless subdomain of the Service to which you deploy the functions and assets of the `flexsim` project. Currently, it is only needed when using real voice phone calls. You can get this value after you execute the Deployment step (see below).
- `SERVERLESS_FN_SUBDOMAIN`

A `.env` file placed in the project root folder can be used to supply those variables to all scripts. See `.env.sample` for a template.
 
### Serverless Environment Variables
The Serverless functions also require a small number of environment variables:
- ACCOUNT_SID
- AUTH_TOKEN
- SYNC_SVC_SID


### Preparing a Flex Project for flexsim

#### Task Channels
If you specify any non-standard channels in your domain, make sure the corresponding TaskChannels have been created in the target Flex project prior to running `custsim`. 

#### Worker Activities
If you specify any non-standard Worker activities in your domain, make sure they have been created in the target Flex project prior to running `agentsim`.

#### Skills
To avoid conflicts with the existing configuration of your target Flex project, the `deploy` script does not build `routing.skills` values nor the proficiencies, if specified in your domain (and they are by default). Thus, you should use the Flex Admin page, under the Skills menu choice, to define any of the skills that can be assigned to agents. By default these are: "Sales", "Service" and "Support".

## Localization
The simulator supports localization. Default values for domain properties are read from a localized file, which can be specified using the `--locale` command-line option. Currently, the only (complete) default domain-values file supplied is for US English. The project maintainers are looking for assistance in creating default values files for other locales.

When a locale is specified, `genconfig` will generate localized agent names and `custsim` will generate localized customer names. Currently, the supported locales for naming people include: 'en_us', 'es_sp', 'de_de' and 'fr_fr'.

## Deployment
Once the system is configured, you must deploy specific artifacts of the repository, prior to script execution. This includes building and deploying a set of Serverless functions and assets.
```
cd serverless
twilio serverless:deploy --override-existing-project
cd -
```
NOTE: During your first serverless deployment, you will get in the output the subdomain of your Service. This should be used to go back and edit your `.env` file in the project root folder. It is used by some of the scripts.

## Script Execution
In the project directory, there are seven NodeJS scripts. See the `execution.txt` file in the project root directory for sample command lines to run these scripts.

### genconfig
To run the `genconfig` script:
```
node ./src/genconfig [--domaindir dir] [--cfgdir dir] [--locale code] [--seed abcde]
```
The optional command-line options include:
- `domaindir` specifies the directory where the `domain.json` file, if any, is located
- `cfgdir` specifies the directory where the configuration files should be written
- `locale` specifies the name of a locale, which is a 5-letter language and country code (following the ISO 639-1 and ISO 3166-1 standards, e.g., 'es_sp').
- `seed` sets a seed value for the random number generator for predictable results from the script

### timeSpeech
This script reads raw conversational text script files and outputs those same files with Polly voice and timing information.

If no `domaindir` option is specified, it will read the localized speech file from the `/localization` folder. For example, by default it will read the `en-us-speech.json` file. The `locale` option can be used to read the speech file for a different locale. If the `domaindir` option is specified, it will look for and read a `speech.json` file from that directory.

The output is written to a `speechData.json` file in the `cfgdir` configuration directory. Note that the `deploy` script will look for this file and deploy it to the special Serverless service devoted to your demo's assets.

To run the `timeSpeech` script:
```
node ./src/timeSpeech [--domaindir dir] [--cfgdir dir] [--locale code] [--seed abcde]
```
The optional command-line options include:
- `domaindir` specifies the directory where the `domain.json` file, if any, is located
- `cfgdir` specifies the directory where the speech-with-timing files should be written
- `locale` specifies the name of a locale, which is a 5-letter language and country code (following the ISO 639-1 and ISO 3166-1 standards, e.g., 'es_sp').

### deploy
To run the `deploy` script:
```
node ./src/deploy [--cfgdir dir] [--acct ACxxx] [--auth abcde] [--wrkspc WSxxxx] [--assignURL url]
```
The optional command-line options include:
- `cfgdir` specifies the directory where the configuration files to be read are located
- `assignURL` specifies the ssignment callback URL to be written into the generated Workflow; this should refer to the `agentsim` host and listening port

- Authentication credentials can also be supplied via the command line, overriding any found in the environment.

NOTE:
- The deployment script will delete and re-create TaskRouter objects (i.e., Workers, TaskQueues, Workflows). As a result, if you have a Studio Flow (or any other app) that references a Workflow -- which it does by SID -- you will need to edit the Workflow field in any SendToFlex widgets, save and re-publish.

### agentsim
`agentsim` is an Express server that handles tasks in a specific Twilio project and TR workspace.

Currently, `agentsim` must be started and the agents should be signed-in before `flexsim` is started.

It supports a single URL path:
- `/reservation` is called by the TR assignment callback to request acceptance of the task by a specific agent. The script uses this request to trigger simulated handling of each task.

To start the `agentsim` script:
```
node ./src/agentsim [--cfgdir dir] [--acct ACxxx] [--auth abcde] [--wrkspc WSxxxx] [--port num] [--seed abcde]
```
The optional command-line options include:
- `cfgdir` specifies the directory where the configuration files to be read are located
- `port` specifies the HTTP port on which the program listens for assignment callbacks from TaskRouter; if not specified here or in the environment, the default is 3000
- `seed` sets a seed value for the random number generator for predictable results from the script

- Authentication credentials can also be supplied via the command line, overriding any found in the environment.

#### agentsim must be publicly accessible
The simulation builds and deploys a TR Workflow that uses the configured Task attributes, routing criteria and Worker attributes to select and reserve the `flexsim` agents. When a reservation is made, Twilio calls the Workflow-specified assignment callback URL, in order to let the `agentsim` program know that an agent has been assigned a task and that it should now start "handling" the task. That URL can be configured by the user and must reference the publicly accessible host and port of the `agentsim` script. On a development machine, this can be done using a tunnel service like `ngrok`.

### custsim
This script is only needed if you want to have real phone calls placed from the customer phone number to the center phone number. Its use requires additional configuration (e.g., phone numbers) and the `timeSpeech` script must be run after the text scripts -- default or custom -- are ready.

To run the `custsim` script:
```
node ./src/custsim [--cfgdir dir] [--acct ACxxx] [--auth abcde] [--wrkspc WSxxxx]
```
The optional command-line options include:
- `cfgdir` specifies the directory where the configuration files to be read are located
- `port` specifies the HTTP port on which the program listens for callbacks from ProgVoice and TaskRouter; if not specified here or in the environment, the default is 3001
- Authentication credentials can also be supplied via the command line, overriding any found in the environment.

#### custsim must be publicly accessible
When a phone call is made, the simulation relies on a few different Twilio webhooks (e.g., the "call status" URL on the phone number) in order to let the `custsim` program know about progress of the call and associated Task. Those URLs must reference the publicly accessible host and port of the `custsim` script. On a development machine, this can be done using a tunnel service like `ngrok`.

### flexsim
This script generates the workload for the simulation during runtime. It generates TaskRouter Tasks itself and, if configured, sends requests to the `custsim` program to place real phone calls. All pseudo-random simulation data for the arrival phase of tasks is calculated by this script.

Note: `agentsim` (and `custsim` if you've configured `realVoice` to true) should be running when you start `flexsim`.

To run the `flexsim` script:
```
node ./src/flexsim [--cfgdir dir] [--acct ACxxx] [--auth abcde] [--wrkspc WSxxxx] [--timeLim num] [--locale code] [--seed abcde]
```
The optional command-line options include:
- `cfgdir` specifies the directory where the configuration files to be read are located
- `locale` specifies the name of a locale, which is a 5-letter language and country code (following the ISO 639-1 and ISO 3166-1 standards, e.g., 'es_sp').
- Authentication credentials can also be supplied via the command line, overriding any found in the environment.
- `timeLim` specifies the length of execution time, in seconds; if not specified, the default is 3600 seconds
- `seed` sets a seed value for the random number generator for predictable results from the script

### cleansim
The `cleansim` script is used to reset or remove a flexsim deployment. By default, it deletes any Tasks that remain from a previous execution of the simulator. It also signs out any Workers who are signed in. Additional options support removal of Workers and call recordings.

To run the `cleansim` script:
```
node ./src/cleansim [--cfgdir dir] [--acct ACxxx] [--auth abcde] [--wrkspc WSxxxx] [--dletWorkers boolean] [--recordings boolean]
```
The optional command-line options include:
- `cfgdir` specifies the directory where the configuration files to be read are located.
- `dletWorkers` indicates whether the simulation agents should also be removed from the project.
- `recordings` indicates whether call recordings generated by the simulation should also be removed from the project.
- Authentication credentials can also be supplied via the command line, overriding any found in the environment.

NOTE: if you receive an error message saying that the Workflow could not be found, this probably means your configuration has changed significantly since deployment (or nothing has been deployed). You can always manually delete old simulation resources via the Twilio Console.

## Terminology
Due to the complexity of the domain object structure, this documentation refers to the following semantic elements of a domain description:
- "properties" are the highest level properties of the domain object.
- "dimensions" are the properties under the `dimensions` key. They contain all of the standard and custom data dimensions that describe the contact center being simulated.
- "dimension options" are the possible values of the enumerated dimensions and are stored in the `options` property of each dimension object.
- "option parameters" are used in the randomized generation of dimension values. These are stored in the `optionParams` property.

## Domain Schema
The localization files and optional `domain.json` file must adhere to the same specific JSON schema.

The domain description consists of an object with a set of required property keys.

### brand
The value is used to name the generated Workflow and to mark Workers and Tasks as belonging to `flexsim`, using a `flexsim` attribute.

### agentCnt
This specifies the number of simulation agents generated by `genconfig`.

### realVoice
This boolean specifies whether real voice calls should be simulated. When set to `true`, the `custsim` script must be run to place real phone calls. The IVR, custsim and agentsim programs then use text-to-speech to have mock customer conversations. 

### center
This is an object, which describes the location of the contact center. It has the following properties: `country`, `state`, `city`, `zip`, `agentsPhone`, `ivrVoice` and `agentVoice`.

#### country
This is the 2-character abbreviation for the country name.

#### state
This is the 2-4 character abbreviation for the state name.

#### city
This is the city name for the center's phone number. Following conventions in Flex Insights, the name should be all caps.

#### zip
This is the zip or postal code.

#### agentsPhone
This is the Twilio phone number used to simulate agents talking. Its webhook URL in the console must be configured with the URL of the `/agentAnswered` endpoint provided by `agentsim`.

#### ivrVoice
This is the name of the Amazon Polly voice used by the IVR application when it performs text-to-speech. Currently, only Polly voices are supported by the system.

#### agentVoice
This is the name of the Amazon Polly voice used by the `agentsim` application when it performs text-to-speech. Currently, only Polly voices are supported by the system.

### customers
This is an object, which describes the customers of the contact center. It has two properties: `country` and `phoneFormat`.

#### country
This is the 2-character abbreviation for the country name.

#### phoneFormat
This is a masking string that describes the format of customer phone numbers as stored in Flex Insights. For example, the format for US phone numbers would be `+1#########` whereas the format for numbers in Spain would be `+34###########`.

#### voice
This is the name of the Amazon Polly voice used by the `custsim` application when it performs text-to-speech. Currently, only Polly voices are supported by the system.

### queueFilterDim
This specifies the dimension (see below) that will be used to generate the Filters in the Workflow.

### queueWorkerDims
This specifies the dimension that will be used to generate the worker expressions in the TaskQueue objects.

### dimensions
This is an object, which contains a set of configurable domain dimensions, which can have text or numeric values. Each dimension has a name and other properties that specify its data-type, range of values, and options for the generation of pseudo-random values and where they are used (e.g., worker attribute, task attribute).

### Standard Dimensions
There is a set of standard dimensions that must be present for the simulation to run correctly. All of the standard dimensions are supplied by the localization file, but their properties can be overridden by including them in a domain file. The standard dimensions that must be present include the following:

#### arrivalGap
This is the mean time between new inbound tasks arriving from customers.

#### channel
This is the set of task channels that can be used by customer tasks. Every configured value must be present in the target Twilio project as `deploy` does not build these automatically.

#### abandonTime
This is the mean time before customers will abandon their task if not yet accepted by an agent.

#### waitTime
This is the actual time that the task waited before being accepted by an agent. It has a custom calculation and can not be configured by the user but this dimension must be present in the localization file. It can be used to influence the value of other dimensions (e.g., customer satisfaction metrics).

#### talkTime
This is the mean "talk" time for tasks once accepted by an agent.

#### wrapTime
This is the mean "wrapping" time for tasks once accepted by an agent.

#### activity
This is the set of worker Activity codes that can be used by the agents. Every configured value must be present in the target Twilio project as `deploy` does not build these automatically.

### Custom Dimensions
The user can also specify and configure their own custom dimensions. One use of custom dimensions is to generate values for Worker and Task attributes. The localized defaults files already include a few custom dimensions (e.g., topic) but if the user supplies any custom dimensions in a domain file, the default ones will be removed and only those from the domain file will be generated into the configuration.

### Dimensions JSON Schema
Each dimension must adhere to a strict schema. Many of the dimension properties have default values and can be omitted by the user. Those defaults are documented below.

The key of each dimension is treated as its name. The name becomes relevant when the value is saved as a worker or task attribute, or when referenced in the formula for calculating another dimension value (see `influences` below).

#### entity
This specifies the data entity that provides the logical cardinality (or location) of the dimension. Valid values are: `tasks` and `workers`.
The default value is `tasks`.

#### phase
This specifies the lifecycle phase (or event) when the value for the dimension is generated. Valid values are: `deploy`, `activity`, `arrive`, `assign` and `complete`.
The default value is `arrive` for tasks and `deploy` for workers.

#### parent
This optional property specifies the parent of the dimension. It's only valid for dimensions with an `enum` expression. If specified, option parameters are constrained to a subset of values for each option parameter of the parent dimension. This supports a hierarchy of dimensional values, such as team names within each department and cutomer intents within each topic.

#### valueCnt
This is an integer and specifies the number of values to generate for the dimension. Valid values are: 1 or more. If the value is greater than one, the values are stored in an array.
The default value is `1`.

#### isAttribute
This is a boolean and indicates whether the dimension value should be written as an attribute for its entity. Valid values are: `true` and `false`. A value of `false` can be useful for generating numeric values that will not be written as an attribute but which can be used to influence other dimension values.
The default value is `true`.

#### attrName
This allows task and worker attribute names to be different than the dimension name, when instantiated in instances of the entity. Attribute names with periods represent paths. So, for example, if a worker dimension has `isAttribute` set to true, an attrName of "routing.skills" will result in a Worker attribute that might look like `"routing": {"skills": ["Support"]}`.
The default value is the name of the dimension.

#### dataType
This specifies the data type of the dimension. Valid values are: `string`, `number`, `integer` and `boolean`.
The default value is `string`.

#### expr
This specifies the expression of the values. Valid values are: `enum` and `range`.
The default value is `enum`.

#### options
This is an object and specifies the possible values for the dimension. It only applies to an `enum` expression dimension.
There are no default values. For a dimension without a parent, it should have a single array property `all`, which is a list of string valuess. For a dimension with a parent, it should have an array property for every option of its parent dimension.

#### optionParams
This is an object and specifies additional parameters used for the generation of the dimension's values. It only applies to `enum` expression dimensions. For a dimension without a parent, it should have a single array property `all`. For a dimension with a parent, it should have an array property for every option of its parent dimension. Each object in these arrays have a single required key: `portion`, which indicates the target incidence of the corresponding optiin being generated for the dimension at runtime.
If omitted, the simulation will generate all of the corresponding option values in the dimension with a fairly even distribution. For example, if three values are specified in the dimension's enumeration, each value will occur roughly one third of the time.

Specific standard dimensions expect additional keys in the `optionParams` objects.
- The `channel` dimension expects a `baseCapacity` key whose integer value specifies the default capacity of Workers for the corresponding channel value.
- The `activity` dimension expects two keys:
  - the `address` key specifies the external address used by customers to contact the brand on that channel
  - the `baseDur` key whose integer value specifies the default duration that Workers spend in the corresponding activity

#### curve
This specifies the shape of the value distribution curve for the dimension. Valid values are: `uniform` and `bell`.
The default value is `uniform` for enumerated values and `bell` for range values. A bell-shaped distribution can be further described by `influences`. Additional control over bell curves (e.g., standard deviation, skew) may be added in the future, depending on the level of interest.

#### min
This specifies the minimum value for the dimension. It only applies to a `range` expression dimension.
The default value is 0.

#### max
This specifies the maximum value for the dimension. It only applies to a `range` expression dimension.
The default value is 1.

#### influences
This is an array of objects and specifies how other dimensions influence the value generated for this one. Each object in the array must contain the following keys: `factor`, `effect` and `amount`.
- `factor` specifies the influencing dimension. It must refer to the `range` dimension that is calculated in the same or a previous `phase`. For example, a dimension that is generated during task completion can be influenced by factors generated in the `deploy`, `arrive`, `assign` or `complete` phases. However, a dimension in the `assign` phase cannot be influenced by a factor that is not generated until the `complete` phase. Also, a dimension in the `task` entity can be influenced by factors in either the `worker` or `task` entities. This parameter contains the influencing dimension name. It can reference another custom dimension or any of the following standard ones: `waitTime`, `talkTime` or `wrapTime`. Finally, if influencing an `enum` dimension, treat its `min` and `max` values as 0 and 1 when specifying the amount of shifting.
- `effect` specifies the type of influence; the only valid value currently is `shift`
- `amount` specifes the weight of the influence and is expressed as a fraction of the factor's value difference from its target mean

Influences are best understood with an example. Let's say a custom `csat` dimension should be influenced by the task `talkTime` factor. The CSAT varies between 1 and 5 with a mean of 3, whereas talk time varies between 0 and 100 secs with a mean of 50. And for a particular task, the actual talk time is 25 secs and the pre-influences CSAT value is 2.

Now assume the following `influences` configuration for the `csat` dimension:
```
[{
  "factor": "talkTime",
  "effect": "shift",
  "amount": -0.05
}]
```
The calculation process for the final `csat` value would flow like this:
- A `talkTime` value of 25 is 25 less (i.e., -25) than the expected mean of 50.
- Multiplied by the influence `amount` of -0.05 results in a shift of `csat` by +1.25 (-25 * -0.05).
- A raw `csat` value of 2 is now shifted to 3.25 and rounded to the integer value of 3.

## Using flexsim in a Demo
When using `flexsim` in a demo, here are some tips:
- All simulated agents start out in an Available state and it takes awhile for the random nature of the simulation to place agents in a mixture of activities that is both realistic and in line with the configured value-percentages. Thus, start `agentsim` at least 10 minutes before your demo.
- Following a demo, stop all of the flexsim processes. Then, run the `cleansim` script to put all simulated workers in the `Offline` state. This will stop the active-hour billing for those agents and will help preserve the credit balance in your Twilio project.
- If you configure the simulation to make real phone calls, try to limit their volume by adjusting the `portion` for the voice channel, since they consume a lot of resources compared to the "virtual" tasks.

## Known Limitations
- The project has not yet reached a "1.0" status and there will be breaking changes from time to time.
- The building of test cases has only just started. Please report any bugs and every atttempt will be made to get them resolved quickly.
- Real calls can be generated by `custsim` when `realVoice` is set to `true`. However, real messaging conversations are not currently supported.
- Only inbound tasks are currently supported.
- Only `uniform` and `bell` distributions are currently  supported for `range` values. The `log`arithmic distribution is not yet supported.
- Only `shift` effects can be used in `influences`. The `skew` effect is not yet supported.
- The generated (default) intent values often don't make logical sense, given the generated topic values.

## Changelog

### 0.0.1
- This is the initial "beta" release for SE testing.
### 0.0.2
- The domain schema has been documented (see above).
- A breaking change has been made to the schema to improve and rationalize default values, parameter naming and the use of influences.
  - The `calculation` property has been removed.
- The first set of test cases has been added.
- Checks on the validity of JSON in the domain file has been strengthened.
- Bug fixes:
  - Task attributes set during task arrival are no longer overwritten at task completion.
### 0.0.3
- If the `optionParams` property for a dimension is omitted from your `domain.json` file, the `genconfig` script will evenly generate all of the values in the dimension's `values` array.
- The capacity of all workers for each channel can be specified in the domain file, using the `baseCapacity` property for each value in the `channel` dimension.
- All configuration and randomization logic has moved to a separate library package, [flexsim-lib](https://www.npmjs.com/package/flexsim-lib), so that it can be shared with the configuration UI (coming soon). The library code can be found at [jlafer/flexsim-lib](https://github.com/jlafer/flexsim-lib).
### 0.0.4
- The terminology of the domain schema object properties was changed and clarified for better clarity. That is reflected in this document and the domain files.
- The following additions and changes have been made to the domain schema:
  - The `props` property has been renamed to `dimensions`.
  - The `valueProps` property within prop instances (now "dimension instances") has been renamed to `valueParams`.
  - New dimensions have been added: `center` and `customer`.
  - The `channel` dimension has been given a new value parameter property, `address`, which gives the phone number or "to" address that customers use to contact the center on that channel.
- The simulation now generates most of the standard task attributes expected by Flex Insights, so that individual conversations have realistic metadata.
### 0.0.5
- The concept of dimension instances has been removed, which greatly simplifies the configuration and the code. Sorry for the confusion and churn! This may result in occasional configuration redundancy when defining related dimensions (e.g., `topic` and `skill`) that share the same values and other properties. However, the few times when this occurs didn't seem to justify the added complexity.
- The following additions and changes have been made to the domain schema:
  - The `instances` property of dimensions has been removed. All dimension-instance properties have moved to the dimension.
  - Dimension objects now have a new optional property named `parent`. This allows parent-child dimensions, where the values (`options`) of the child are restricted to a subset of its parent's values.
  - Dimension objects now have a new optional property named `attrName`. This allows a dimension that gets saved as a worker or task attribute to be saved with a different name, which can be a period-delimited path name (e.g., routing.skills).
  - The `values` property has been renamed to `options`. Furthermore, it is now an object and not an array. See the description above for details.
  - The `valueParams` property has been renamed to `optionParams`. It is also now an object and not an array. See the description above for details.
- The similator can now place "real" customer phone calls. There are new scripts to support this capability: `timeSpeech`, `deploySpeech` and `custsim`. There is also a new "speech" JSON file for creating custom conversational text for customer, IVR and agent. See above for details.
